# CODE OF CONDUCT

## INTRODUCTION

This code of conduct applies to all spaces part of the Extollers
community, including Reddit, GitHub, blogs, Twitter, and any other
communication channel used by us.

We expect this code of conduct to be honored by everyone who
participates in the Extollers community formally or informally, or
claims any affiliation with it, in any community-related activities
and especially when representing the Extollers, in any role.

This code is not exhaustive or complete. It serves to distill our
common understanding of a collaborative, shared environment and
goals. We expect it to be followed in spirit as much as in the letter,
so that it can enrich all of us and the technical communities in which
we participate.

## SPECIFIC GUIDELINES

We strive to:

1. **Be open.** We invite anyone to participate in our community. We
   preferably use public methods of communication for project-related
   messages, unless discussing something sensitive. This applies to
   messages for help or project-related support, too; not only is a
   public support request much more likely to result in an answer to a
   question, it also makes sure that any inadvertent mistakes made by
   people answering will be more easily detected and corrected.

2. **Be empathetic, welcoming, friendly, and patient.** We work
   together to resolve conflict, assume good intentions, and do our
   best to act in an empathetic fashion. We may all experience some
   frustration from time to time, but we do not allow frustration to
   turn into a personal attack. A community where people feel
   uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. We should be
   respectful when dealing with other community members as well as
   with people outside our community.

3. **Be collaborative.** Our work will be used by other people, and in
   turn we will depend on the work of others. When we make something
   for the benefit of the project, we are willing to explain to others
   how it works, so that they can build on the work to make it even
   better. Any decision we make will affect users and colleagues, and
   we take those consequences seriously when making decisions.

4. **Be inquisitive.** Nobody knows everything! Asking questions early
   avoids many problems later, so questions are encouraged, though
   they may be directed to the appropriate forum. Those who are asked
   should be responsive and helpful, within the context of our shared
   goal of improving the project's code.

5. **Be careful in the words that we choose.** Whether we are
   participating as professionals or volunteers, we value
   professionalism in all interactions, and take responsibility for
   our own speech. Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other
   participants. Harassment and other exclusionary behaviour are not
   acceptable. This includes, but is not limited to:

   - Violent threats or language directed against another person.

   - Sexist, racist, or otherwise discriminatory jokes and language.

   - Posting sexually explicit or violent material.

   - Posting (or threatening to post) other people's personally
    identifying information ("doxing").

   - Sharing private content, such as emails sent privately or
   non-publicly, or unlogged forums such as IRC channel history.

   - Personal insults, especially those using racist or sexist terms.

   - Unwelcome sexual attention.

   - Excessive or unnecessary profanity.

   - Repeated harassment of others. In general, if someone asks you to
    stop, then stop.

   - Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behaviour.

6. **Be concise.** Keep in mind that what you write once will be read
   by hundreds of persons. Writing a short email means people can
   understand the conversation as efficiently as possible. Short
   emails should always strive to be empathetic, welcoming, friendly
   and patient. When a long explanation is necessary, consider adding
   a summary.

   Try to bring new ideas to a conversation so that each mail adds
   something unique to the thread, keeping in mind that the rest of
   the thread still contains the other messages with arguments that
   have already been made.

   Try to stay on topic, especially in discussions that are already fairly large.

7. **Step down considerately.** Members of every project come and
   go. When somebody leaves or disengages from the project they should
   tell people they are leaving and take the proper steps to ensure
   that others can pick up where they left off. In doing so, they
   should remain respectful of those who continue to participate in
   the project and should not misrepresent the project's goals or
   achievements. Likewise, community members should respect any
   individual's choice to leave the project.

## DIVERSITY STATEMENT

We welcome and encourage participation by everyone. We are committed
to being a community that everyone feels good about joining. Although
we may not be able to satisfy everyone, we will always work to treat
everyone well.

No matter how you identify yourself or how others perceive you: we
welcome you. Though no list can hope to be comprehensive, we
explicitly honour diversity in: age, culture, ethnicity, genotype,
gender identity or expression, language, national origin, neurotype,
phenotype, political beliefs, profession, race, religion, sexual
orientation, socioeconomic status, subculture and technical ability.

Though we welcome people fluent in all languages, development is
conducted in English.

Standards for behaviour in the community are detailed in the Code of
Conduct above. We expect participants in our community to meet these
standards in all their interactions and to help others to do so as
well.

## REPORTING GUIDELINES

While this code of conduct should be adhered to by participants, we
recognize that sometimes people may have a bad day, or be unaware of
some of the guidelines in this code of conduct. When that happens, you
may reply to them and point out this code of conduct. Such messages
may be in public or in private, whatever is most appropriate. However,
regardless of whether the message is public or not, it should still
adhere to the relevant parts of this code of conduct; in particular,
it should not be abusive or disrespectful.

If you believe someone is violating this code of conduct, you may
reply to them and point out this code of conduct. Such messages may be
in public or in private, whatever is most appropriate. Assume good
faith; it is more likely that participants are unaware of their bad
behaviour than that they intentionally try to degrade the quality of
the discussion. Should there be difficulties in dealing with the
situation, you may report your compliance issues in confidence to
<em>etienne at atnnn.com</em>.

If the violation is in documentation or code, for example
inappropriate pronoun usage or word choice within official
documentation, we ask that people report these privately to
<em>etienne at atnnn.com</em>, and, if they have sufficient ability
within the project, to resolve or remove the concerning material,
being mindful of the perspective of the person originally reporting
the issue.

## ENDNOTES

This Code defines empathy as "a vicarious participation in the
emotions, ideas, or opinions of others; the ability to imagine oneself
in the condition or predicament of another." Empathetic is the
adjectival form of empathy.

This statement thanks the following, on which it draws for content and
inspiration:

- https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct